# Type Conversions

## Implicit Conversion

- Automatically performed when a value is copied to a compatible type.
- **Standard conversions**: Affect fundamental data types, and allow the conversions between numerical types (`short` to `int`, `int` to `float`, `double` to `int`...), to or from `bool`, and some pointer conversions.
- **Promotion** produce the exact same value in the destination type.
- **Pointer upcast**: pointers to a derived class can be converted to a pointer of an *accessible* and *unambiguous* base class

## Implicit Conversions with Classes

- **Single-argument constructors:** allow implicit conversion from a particular type to initialize an object.
- **Assignment operator:** allow implicit conversion from a particular type on assignments.
- **Type-cast operator:** allow implicit conversion to a particular type.

```c++
// implicit conversion of classes:
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class A {};

class B {
public:
  // conversion from A (constructor):
  B (const A& x) {}
  // conversion from A (assignment):
  B& operator= (const A& x) {return *this;}
  // conversion to A (type-cast operator)
  operator A() {return A();}
};

int main ()
{
  A foo;
  B bar = foo;    // calls constructor
  bar = foo;      // calls assignment
  foo = bar;      // calls type-cast operator
  return 0;
}
```

## Keyword explicit

Marking the affected constructor with the `explicit` keyword

```c++
explicit B (const A& x) {}
```

## Type Casting

```c++
double x = 10.3;
int y;
y = int (x);    // functional notation
y = (int) x;    // c-like cast notation
```

- To control these types of conversions between classes, we have four specific casting operators:

**dynamic_cast <new_type> (expression)**

Can only be used with pointers and references to classes (or with `void*`). Ensure that the result of the conversion points to a valid complete object

**static_cast <new_type> (expression)**

Not incur the overhead of the type-safety checks of `dynamic_cast`.

**reinterpret_cast <new_type> (expression)**

A simple binary copy of the value from one pointer to the other. All pointer conversions are allowed: neither the content pointed nor the pointer type itself is checked.

**const_cast <new_type> (expression)**

Manipulates the constness of the object pointed by a pointer, either to be set or to be removed.

## typeid

Allows to check the type of an expression.

```c++
typeid(...).name();
```

